# CS340
SNHU CS-340 Course Repo

### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

When I write programs that are intended for others to use, I focus on organization, simplicity, and writing code that can do the maximal work with the smallest amount of user input. The CRUD module designed for this project is impactful because it removes the repetitive aspects of interacting with a database so that the dashboard interface can be clean and straightforward. "Hiding" some of the logic behind an adapter makes sure that the code we have to work with most often, the dashboard itself, is clean and uncluttered, which helps anyone who may need to work on it or improve it in the future. Comments are also very important for the same reason. Inline explanations help future developers make edits without having to know all of the underlying functionality explicitly.

### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I approach computer science problems first with what the customer explicitly wants or needs. It's helpful for me to start at the ultimate goal and work backward, implementing the functionality that is absolutely needed, before working to refine it to be as dynamic as possible. In the case of this project, I knew up front what data the client, Grazioso Salvare, was looking to highlight and what kind of queries they needed to perform their work efficiently. I worked to make sure that these features were simple to use, consistent, and informative. This was my first time using Plotly, and it was helpful to have a fully functioning library to add value to the Dashboard through easy-to-implement visuals. The data table is sophisticated but easy to set up and allows direct visualization of the client's database, which is a huge benefit. Now that I understand how databases work and what features they offer, I am looking forward to using them for information storage and analysis in the future.

### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists program computers to perform tasks that humans would take exponentially longer amounts of time to perform. It's important because programming allows humans to work more efficiently and perform useful tasks like working with databases that would be otherwise impossible to sustain. These types of projects are important because they democratize computation and give powerful tools to even small teams. The ability to do even simple analysis like narrowing down a list of dogs allows the company to make critical decisions very quickly and with little work. As the database is updated, they will be able to repeat these tasks continually. The setup and initial cost of development will allow the company to find important information perpetually until one of the used technologies is no longer supported. It allows the client to work efficiently and possible even offer functionality that couldn't have otherwise, adding value to the company.
